What doctor treats Aarskog–Scott syndrome ?
Aarskog–Scott syndrome is a genetic defect that may become evident at different stages of life. Multiple specialities are involved. A pediatrician may turn suspicious with a child born with congenital anomalies like heart defects or a cleft palate. Sometimes, a diagnosis results when there is a detailed search into the cause of short stature, undescended testes, and other physical abnormalities. A team of specialist including a physician specialized in Internal Medicine, surgeon and dentist may all be involved in the treatment of this condition.
Can Aarskog–Scott syndrome be prevented?
No. Aarskog–Scott syndrome is an inherited genetic disease that arises due to mutations. However, we can take protective steps like prevention of consanguineous marriages (marriage between close blood related family members).
Is there a role for genetic counselling in preventing Aarskog–Scott syndrome?
Yes. Genetic counselling is indicated for individuals or families who carry Aarskog–Scott syndrome.
Which doctor should I visit in case I wish to undergo an abortion?
You should visit your gynecologist or a doctor trained and competent enough to conduct an abortion.
Which is better – medical abortion or surgical abortion?
The choice between medical abortion and surgical abortion depends on the duration of pregnancy and individual preference. Surgical abortion can be done in a single visit, while medical abortion requires multiple visits. On the other hand, the usual risks of surgery can be avoided with medical abortion.
How do I know that the fetus is completely aborted after a medical abortion?
You will need to visit your doctor, who will examine you and make sure that the fetus is completely aborted.
Which specialist should I see if I have Acute Bronchitis?
You should consult a General Physician or a Pulmonologist.
How do people get acute bronchitis?
Acute bronchitis spreads from person to person through cough droplets. The viruses that cause the infection are sprayed into the air or onto people's hands when they cough. You can catch acute bronchitis if you breathe in these viruses or touch hands coated with these viruses. Cigarette smoking or being exposed to industrial fumes can break down the body's defense against infection. People who smoke are more likely to get acute bronchitis and have it for a longer period.
What are the other problems that occur along with acute bronchitis?
Sometimes the cough from acute bronchitis lasts for several weeks. Usually this happens because the bronchial tubes may take a long time to heal. Acute bronchitis can be confused with asthma. If you continue to wheeze and cough, especially at night or when you are active, you could have mild asthma.
Who is the doctor who treats ALL(Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia)?
A hematologist or an oncologist (cancer specialist) may treat ALL. A pediatric oncologist may treat ALL in children.
What kind of diet is recommended for ALL patients?
All foods must be cooked. Fresh fruits or vegetables must be avoided. Meats should be cooked until well done.
What are the other precautions to be taken(Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia)?
While being treated, the patient should avoid exposure to crowds. They should avoid contact with people who have contagious illnesses, especially those with viral infections like flu, measles and Chicken Pox. Strenuous activity must be avoided.
What are the long-term effects of radiation?
In the long run, radiation can cause cataract, sterility, lung, kidney and bone marrow problems. Cancers may also occur, especially leukemia, breast, brain, thyroid and lung cancer.
How does potassium iodide help in radiation (Acute Radiation Syndrome)?
Potassium iodide gets concentrated in the thyroid gland and prevents accumulation of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland, which could lead to thyroid cancer in the long run.
How is internal contamination treated Acute Radiation Syndrome?
In some cases, internal contamination of the digestive tract may be reduced with stomach wash and drugs that cause vomiting or laxatives. Antacids like aluminum phosphate gel may reduce the absorption of radioactive strontium.
What is depression?
Depression is more than the blues or the blahs; it is more than the normal, everyday ups and downs. Clinical depression is a serious health problem that affects the total person. In addition to feelings, it can change behavior, physical health and appearance, academic performance, social activity and the ability to handle everyday decisions and pressures.
What causes clinical depression?
We do not yet know all the causes of depression, but there seem to be biological and emotional factors that may increase the likelihood of an individual developing a depressive disorder.
How common Adolescent Depression?
Clinical depression is a lot more common than what most people think. One-fourth of all women and one-eighth of all men will suffer at least one episode of depression during their lifetime. Depression affects people of all ages but is less common for teenagers than for adults.
Adolescent Depression serious?
Depression can be very serious. It has been linked to poor school performance, truancy, alcohol and drug abuse, running away, and feelings of worthlessness and hopelessness. In the past 25 years, the rate of suicide among teenagers and young adults has increased dramatically. Suicide is often linked to depression. 
Are all depressive disorders alike?
There are various forms or types of depression. Some people experience only one episode of depression in their whole life, but many have several recurrences. Some depressive episodes begin suddenly for no apparent reason, while others can be associated with a life situation or stress. Some people suffer from bipolar disorder in which their moods cycle between two extremes-from the depths of desperation to frenzied talking or activity or grandiose ideas about their own competence.